# theory_of_mind
This is the code I wrote for a group project at KOSMOS (Konstanz summer school modelling social and collective behaviour).

## Background

Theory of mind can be loosely described as inferring the behaviours of others by using a model of how their mind works. I have absolutely no experience in the topic: nevertheless, it seems to me an interesting framework, for example to study the evolution of deception in animal communication (maybe?). The code presented here is the simplest possible set-up for a theory of mind scenario, where an individual makes a sequence of decisions about what food to eat (either "dessert", "fruit" or "garbage") depending on an internal quality value he associates with every option. As an external observer, the quality values of the individual are unknown, and the task is to infer such quality values from its sequence of choices. Despite the setup is extremely simple, it is useful to understand the concept likelihood, in my opinion one of the coolest ideas in statistics.

## Code
I first simulate the sequence of food choices for an individual. To infer the quality values, I calculate the likelihood of a random combinations of candidates quality values. The combinations of quality values associated with the minimum negative log likelihood will be the most probable (the log is taken for easening computations). The likelihood is the probability that the observed sequence of choices (the data) was generated by the combination of quality values (the parameters). The "model" linking quality values to the decision is the softmax function. 
